README.md, before:

# vertigo-rs

## Introduction
This is an actively maintained fork of Joran Honig's [vertigo](https://github.com/JoranHonig/vertigo) with support for foundry added.

This tool will mutate files in `src/` and run `forge test` to see if the mutant survives. Files that end with `.t.sol` or have `test` in their name (including the path) are ignored. Files in lib (or any directory that isn't src/) will not be mutated.

You do not need to specify that you are in a foundry project, the presence of a `foundry.toml` file will signify to this tool that you are in a foundry repo. If you have configuration files for truffle or hardhat in your project, this tool will get confused. You can temporarily change their names.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/RareSkills/vertigo-rs
cd vertigo-rs
python setup.py develop

cd <your foundry repo>

python <path-to-this-project>/vertigo-rs/vertigo.py run
```

## cli arguments
```
--src-dir <contracts-directory>
```
Changing the source directory. This is usually `src/` by default in foundry, but if you have a different name like `contracts` you can specify it with --src-dir. Default is `src/`

```
--exclude-regex <regex>
```
Don't test files in `--src-dir` that match this regex. This is useful if you have mocks or tests in a subdirectory of `src/`

```
--sample-ratio <float [0-1]>
```
Don't run every mutation, but run a percentage of them. Useful if you are just checking if everything works end-to-end

```
--output <file>
```
Save output to a file instead of stdout. Some terminals don't show the output, so use this option if you don't see an output. Recommended to use generally. Defaults to stdout.

Please see the original [readme](https://github.com/JoranHonig/vertigo/blob/master/README.md) for the other options, or use the `--help` option to see the rest.


## Maintainers
Jeffrey Scholz [RareSkills](https://www.rareskills.io)

## Publications and Articles
[Practical Mutation Testing for Smart Contracts](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-31500-9_19) - Joran J. Honig, Maarten H. Everts, Marieke Huisman

[Introduction into Mutation Testing](https://medium.com/swlh/introduction-into-mutation-testing-d6512dc702b0?source=friends_link&sk=2878e0c08b6301a125198a264e43edb4) - Joran Honig

[Mutation Testing for Smart Contracts - A step by step guide](https://medium.com/@joran.honig/mutation-testing-for-smart-contracts-a-step-by-step-guide-68c838ca2094) - Joran Honig

If you want to cite vertigo, please use the following:
```
@InProceedings{10.1007/978-3-030-31500-9_19,
author="Honig, Joran J.
and Everts, Maarten H.
and Huisman, Marieke",
title="Practical Mutation Testing for Smart Contracts",
booktitle="Data Privacy Management, Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technology",
year="2019",
publisher="Springer International Publishing",
pages="289--303"
}
```

Commit message:

Add --scope-file CLI argument
A new --scope-file argument which allows you to only mutate
a set of files specified in a scope.txt file.

This is useful when using vertigo-rs in audit contest
platforms like C4.

README.md, after:

# vertigo-rs

## Introduction
This is an actively maintained fork of Joran Honig's [vertigo](https://github.com/JoranHonig/vertigo) with support for foundry added.

This tool will mutate files in `src/` and run `forge test` to see if the mutant survives. Files that end with `.t.sol` or have `test` in their name (including the path) are ignored. Files in lib (or any directory that isn't src/) will not be mutated.

You do not need to specify that you are in a foundry project, the presence of a `foundry.toml` file will signify to this tool that you are in a foundry repo. If you have configuration files for truffle or hardhat in your project, this tool will get confused. You can temporarily change their names.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/RareSkills/vertigo-rs
cd vertigo-rs
python setup.py develop

cd <your foundry repo>

python <path-to-this-project>/vertigo-rs/vertigo.py run
```

## cli arguments
```
--src-dir <contracts-directory>
```
Changing the source directory. This is usually `src/` by default in foundry, but if you have a different name like `contracts` you can specify it with --src-dir. Default is `src/`

```
--exclude-regex <regex>
```
Don't test files in `--src-dir` that match this regex. This is useful if you have mocks or tests in a subdirectory of `src/`

```
--scope-file <file>
```
Mutate only the files specified in the provided scope file, where each line should list one file path relative to the project root. This option supersedes `--src-dir`. It is useful if you would like to target a select group of files

```
--sample-ratio <float [0-1]>
```
Don't run every mutation, but run a percentage of them. Useful if you are just checking if everything works end-to-end

```
--output <file>
```
Save output to a file instead of stdout. Some terminals don't show the output, so use this option if you don't see an output. Recommended to use generally. Defaults to stdout.

Please see the original [readme](https://github.com/JoranHonig/vertigo/blob/master/README.md) for the other options, or use the `--help` option to see the rest.


## Maintainers
Jeffrey Scholz [RareSkills](https://www.rareskills.io)

## Publications and Articles
[Practical Mutation Testing for Smart Contracts](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-31500-9_19) - Joran J. Honig, Maarten H. Everts, Marieke Huisman

[Introduction into Mutation Testing](https://medium.com/swlh/introduction-into-mutation-testing-d6512dc702b0?source=friends_link&sk=2878e0c08b6301a125198a264e43edb4) - Joran Honig

[Mutation Testing for Smart Contracts - A step by step guide](https://medium.com/@joran.honig/mutation-testing-for-smart-contracts-a-step-by-step-guide-68c838ca2094) - Joran Honig

If you want to cite vertigo, please use the following:
```
@InProceedings{10.1007/978-3-030-31500-9_19,
author="Honig, Joran J.
and Everts, Maarten H.
and Huisman, Marieke",
title="Practical Mutation Testing for Smart Contracts",
booktitle="Data Privacy Management, Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technology",
year="2019",
publisher="Springer International Publishing",
pages="289--303"
}
```
